---
term: affective labour
author: Jury Urso
---

Part 3 of 'Ethics' by Spinoza is a key to understand the origin of this concept, because Negri with Hardt developed this idea precisely from Spinoza. For them contemporary world changes the very idea of labour shifting into immaterial, affective labour. Affects, according to Spinoza, are something that have corporeal nature, they are in a way modification of our bodies, something inseparable from us. We should remember that Spinoza distinguishes between positive (joy) affects that enlarge our power and negative effects (sadness) that make us slaves of our passions. In this sense, field of new form of affective labour consists really emancipatory potential in a sense that “The path of joy is constantly to open new possibilities, to expand our field of imagination, our abilities to feel and be affected, our capacities for action and passion. In Spinoza’s thought, in fact, there is a correspondence between our power to affect (our mind’s power to think and our body’s power to act) and our power to be affected. The greater our mind’s ability to think, the greater its capacity to be affected by the ideas of others; the greater our body’s ability to act, the greater its capacity to be affected by other bodies. And we have greater power to think and to act, Spinoza explains, the more we interact and create common relations with others. Joy, in other words, is really the result of joyful encounters with others, encounters that increase our powers, and the institution of these encounters such that they last and repeat” (Hardt and Negri “Commonwealth”, p. 379). So, affects, understood as something that leads to the cooperation between human beings, pave the way for the political emancipation. 
